Python – Assignment 2
A gene is a region of DNA consisting of several coding parts (called exons), interspersed
by non-coding parts (called introns). The coding parts are concatenated to form a string
of nucleotides called mRNA, where occurrences of the letter T in the coding parts are 
substituted by the letter U. A triplet of mRNA letters codes for a specific amino acid, which 
are the building blocks of proteins. These consecutive triplets of letters in the mRNA are 
translated into its corresponding protein sequence of amino acids.
The goal of this assignment is to ONLY use Python programming language to write a 
script that maps a gene sequence into its corresponding protein sequence.
Three input files are needed for this assignment. They are available on Blackboard. Make 
sure to place them in the same directory as your Python script.
1) “gene_sequence.txt”: the nucleotide sequence of the gene in question.
2) “exon_position.txt”: contains the start and end positions of the exon regions. 
Each line holds the start and end positions of an exon region. To form the mRNA, 
only the exon regions (the coding parts) of the gene must be combined while 
replacing the letter T by the letter U.
3) “code.txt”: contains the mapping of mRNA triplets to amino acids. The first 
column is the mRNA triplet, while the other columns represents the 1-letter
symbol, a 3-letter name, and the full name of the corresponding amino acid. To 
create the protein, we replace the triplets of the mRNA strings by the
corresponding 1-letter.
ATTENTION: the translation always begins with the amino acid Methionine, code AUG, 
and ends when one of the three stop codons is met (check the code.txt file). You must 
thus check for the correct start and stop criteria.
Store the protein sequence/string in a file, split on multiple lines with 80 characters per 
line. It is a good practice to have a separate folder for the files being created. Save that file 
in a folder named “output” and test whether this folder exists, and if not, create this folder.The second part of the assignment is to investigate a human disease related to the gene in 
question. This diseases is caused by a mutation of the nucleotide in position 30049 (0-
based), a mutation from T to A.
The goal is to check what happens to the protein if this nucleotide is mutated. Compare 
the length of the mutated protein to the length of the non-mutated gene. State your 
conclusion.
